Document required manual inputs for ESPHome new entry config flow (#38612)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/esphome.markdown

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ### Required manual Input

Author: ```suggestion
### Required manual input
```

> The configuration of an ESPHome device requires you to enter the following information:

Author: ```suggestion
To configure an ESPHome device, enter the following information:
```

{% configuration_basic %}

host:
  description: "IP address or hostname of the ESPHome device. <br> This will be pre-filled if the device was auto-discovered."
port:

>   description: "Port used by the ESPHome native API. <br> This will be pre-filled if the device was auto-discovered."

Author: ```suggestion
  description: "Port used by the ESPHome native API (default: 6053). <br> This will be pre-filled if the device was auto-discovered."
```

noise_psk:

>   description: "The pre-shared key used for encryption. <br> This is a 32-byte base64-encoded string. Leave this blank if native encryption is not enabled."

Author: ```suggestion
  description: "The pre-shared key used for encryption. <br> This is a 32‑byte base64‑encoded string. Leave blank if native encryption is not enabled. See [Noise encryption in ESPHome](https://esphome.io/guides/security.html#noise-encryption) for more details."
```

password:

>   description: "Device password. <br> Note: Passwords are deprecated—use encryption keys instead."

Author: ```suggestion
  description: "Device password (deprecated). <br> Use a Noise PSK (encryption key) instead – password support will be removed in a future release."
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Required manual input

To configure an ESPHome device, enter the following information:

{% configuration_basic %}

host:
  description: "IP address or hostname of the ESPHome device. <br> This will be pre-filled if the device was auto-discovered."
port:
  description: "Port used by the ESPHome native API (default: 6053). <br> This will be pre-filled if the device was auto-discovered."
noise_psk:
  description: "The pre-shared key used for encryption. <br> This is a 32‑byte base64‑encoded string. Leave blank if native encryption is not enabled."
password:
  description: "Device password (deprecated). <br> Use a Noise PSK (encryption key) instead – password support will be removed in a future release."

{% endconfiguration_basic %}

For more information, see the [ESPHome Native API Component documentation](https://esphome.io/components/api.html).

> ### Removing the integration

Author: ```suggestion
## Removing the integration
```
